when the titanic began its fateful
voyage
it weighed about 52 000 tons now
how did they even get it into the water
in the first place
step 1 find tons of soap and natural fat
step 2 dump it all over the ramp in
front of the titanic
like a monster slip and slide they even
put grease
all over the outside of the ship to make
sure it didn't get scratched
dented or even rip open just like that
the titanic plopped
softly into the water and the workers
and owners breathed the sigh of relief
at least that part went well when they
built the aswan dam
in egypt they needed to clear out a huge
area for the new artificial lake
almost a hundred thousand people had to
move out of their homes
that was the easy part engineers now had
to try to move
two huge ancient egyptian temples or
they'd be lost
under water forever the answer thousands
of engineers and builders
the temples were built into a mountain
so first
they had to detach it using bulldozers
and jackhammers
then they had to take it all apart like
a humongous lego project
statues roofs walls sculptures pretty
sweet lego set
then they cut the temples into
bite-sized bits over a thousand of them
each one weighed the same as three
elephants so
where did they put it all back together
on the same mountain
just 200 feet higher it took five years
and about 300 million dollars in today's
money
i think even the pharaohs would have
been impressed
now say you're thirsty so you grab a
glass of water
but where does that water come from in
saudi arabia
it comes from salt water you just need
to get the salt out
no biggie that calls for an evaporator
saudi arabia's machine brings fresh
water to 300
000 people not bad for so much desert
the evaporator weighs 5 000 tons and
it's pretty big
like 10 basketball courts big they hired
a special ship to bring it from vietnam
to saudi arabia
but even that was too small after making
the ship a little bigger
and making a successful cross-continent
journey
the evaporator finally touched down in
the middle east
then it was easy just grab 30 tractor
trailers
and pull pretty impressive but the
largest thing ever moved on earth
is way bigger enter the norwegian troll
a gas production platform it weighs more
than a titanic
and is way taller than the empire state
building
but the engineers weren't scared even
though they had to drag the thing 120
miles from shore
they hooked up 10 powerful boats and
pulled it along for a week
that thing cost one billion dollars to
make so they had to be careful
the boats were actually pulling it in
all directions to keep it steady
then slowly making their way out to sea
once it got there its four powerful legs
were secured with concrete
about as much as you'd use to build two
hundred thousand houses
that part of the sea can be quite rough
so they had to make sure
it wouldn't move at all natural gas can
set on fire
even in the middle of the sea you gotta
move out of town
but you're used to your house your big
kitchen cozy fireplace
no problem take your home with you about
500 years ago
an italian architect was constructing
the local city's administration building
but the local church bell tower was
getting in the way
the solution pick up the tower and move
it
the architect built a wooden frame
around the tower and shifted it using
ropes blocks
and a lot of people power since then
a lot of buildings have been moved
around but what happened in china
changed everything in 2004
engineers shifted the food gang building
about 120 feet
it was the heaviest building ever moved
but it only took 11 days
they worked day and night to get it done
so fast
10 000 years ago a meteorite fell on
greenland
it was the only source of iron for the
local people who started breaking pieces
off to make knives harpoons
arrowheads and even jewelry talk about
good luck
over time the locals split the meteorite
named cape york
into a bunch of pieces arctic explorer
robert perry wanted to bring the biggest
piece back to the u.s
so how do you move 30 tons of space rock
without trucks or paved roads
plus it's 1897 and freezing cold
it took three years but he did it he
ended up building a railway with a
special platform
to pull it to the nearest shore it was
the first
and last railway in greenland perry sold
the meteorite for forty thousand dollars
today that would be about a million in
artist michael heiser erected a 340-ton
boulder over the entrance to the la
county museum of art
it was called levitating mass installing
it was easy
getting it there not so much they had to
use a 290 foot trailer
and six different trucks they only drove
at night
100 miles through 22 cities the most
insane part
it ended up costing 10 million dollars
the swedish ship vasa built about 400
years ago
was almost a celebrity people were
amazed by its
size beautiful decoration and gold
sculptures
first time out to sea it's sang why
a gust of wind oops anyway about 80
years ago
they decided to pull it out one plan was
to fill it with ping-pong balls
and freeze it in a block of eyes but
instead they just tied some ropes around
it
and used 18 lifts to drag it along the
seabed to a shallow area
from there it was pretty easy to lift it
out it was mostly made of wood
not much metal the ship survived quite
well
because of the cold sea water and even
floated by itself
the shuttle endeavour flew 25 missions
into space
and in 2012 nasa decided it deserved a
break
its retirement home would be the
california science center
the massive shuttle was loaded onto
trailers and driven through
la at the amazing speed of two miles per
hour
it was the first and probably last time
that a spaceship would drive through a
big city
they had to clear a pretty big path and
ended up chopping down a lot of pesky
things
like lampposts traffic lights power
lines even over 400 trees
but don't worry they raised a lot of
money from the whole thing
enough to plant over 800 new trees
the statue of liberty wasn't built in
the usa
it was built in france after nine years
of hard work
and a serious amount of copper and iron
she was ready to be given to the united
states
as a token of friendship sending it by
mail would take
way too much bubble wrap so they decided
to ship it instead
the statue was cut into 350 pieces
loaded into crates and shipped over to
new york it took them four months to
assemble
all the pieces back together talk about
humpty dumpty
meet bagger 288 a self-propelled
excavator
and the largest land transport on the
planet
this beast can shift thousands of cars
worth of dirt a day
it finished work in one quarry and had
to move on to another
taking it apart shipping it and putting
it back together would have been
ridiculous
so it just drove over there it took
three weeks
and only moved at half a mile per hour
to stop it from wrecking everything it
drove over engineers walked ahead
planting grass and covering roads with
gravel and dirt
now you're walking down the street in
france see a couple of cafes
maybe a nice bakery and the world's
largest gas
turbine named harriet harry's job
keep the lights on in over 700 000
french homes
this mammoth turbine weighs as much as
two jumbo jets
and had to travel through france germany
belgium
and the netherlands hey let's go dutch
the great pyramid of giza in egypt is
made up of more than two million
huge blocks of stone no trailers no
tractors
just some good old-fashioned muscle
power each block weighs more than two
and a half
tons that's like 30 of me these guys
didn't even have strong metals like iron
or steel
they mostly used pieces of wood and
stone hammers